Hello, and welcome to today's episode of Rawkode
Live at the Rawkode Academy. I am of
course your host, Rawkode.
Today we're doing something a little bit different.
It's clustered,
but not clustered.
We are taking a look at the change
logs, real production infrastructure
running on Kubernetes,
which has a small networking issue that we
are gonna attempt to debug and fix live
for you today.
Please remember to subscribe, click the bell, share,
like, comment on all of these videos. It
helps the YouTube algorithm be nice to me
and make
these videos discoverable to other people.
We also have some membership options available if
you wish to support the Academy. They range
from a dollar a month to a little
bit more, which gets you access to private
and featured videos and courses which are currently
being worked on now.
And we have a rather active Discord server.
There's almost 600 people in there now talking
all things, cloud native, Kubernetes, EPPF,
and everything in between.
There's a lot of excitement about the new
Dune movie and Matrix movie, hence, I'm wearing
this t shirt today.
Alright. That is the housekeeping over. We are
gonna say hello to today's wonderful guests.
Hello, Judd Art. Hello, Marcus. How are you
both today?
We're good. I'm good. Marcus looks good to
me as well. So We're good. I'm wearing
a change log shirt. Oh, nice. I'm just
a weird fish. I'm still waiting for mine.
Alright. Can for people that are not familiar
with either of you, can we start off
with a little round of introductions? Gerard, would
you be happy to go first, please?
Yes. Hey. I'm Gerhard. How's it going? I'm
the host of the Ship It podcast on
changelog.com.
And episode 18 just came out where I
had David and Marcus. We're discussing bare metal
meets Kubernetes.
So it was only, I think, fair and
good to return the favor and do Rawkode
live. There's a real problem.
David and Marcus were curious,
which I really liked. And today, we're going
to try and debug it to see what
is the problem and how can you fix
it.
Awesome. Thank you very much. And Marcus?
Yeah. Hi. I'm
at Equinix Metal. I work on all sorts
of integrations,
and
I'm
curious,
about the problem. I'm curious about how Changelog
keeps things,
running,
and
I'm really
dreading
just as in a clustered episode kind of
dreading trying to figure out what what went
wrong.
Yeah. I will I be very disappointed if
we don't take production now down.
Right? So Fridays, you shouldn't deploy on a
Friday. You absolutely should every day. Right? Deploy
be deploying multiple times a day, please. Ship
ship it. Keep shipping it. Not only that,
but Friday is a great day to break
things and just see how reliable your system
is. Because if you wanna take Saturday and
Sunday off, you better be sure that everything
works the way it should.
Well, I do have a knack for breaking
things, but I'll I'll do my best to
say, I promise.
Now this is really cool. We've never done
anything like this before.
We obviously have clustered where we have
very terrible people doing very terrible things to
all of our clusters, and it's also
massive
almost masochistic trying to fix it. And
I don't know what I'm dreading more. Like,
Marcus, like, clustered, I know people are intentionally
breaking up, real world problems are
are debugging
like, there's nobody to give us answers. There's
no hints. That that's what worries me. But
I I think it's gonna be a whole
lot of fun, and you two are two
of the smartest people that I know. So
I know that we're gonna smash this today.
No. Thank you. The pressure on both of
you right now. Thank you. I'm just walking
away. Yeah. I was just gonna say thank
you for the pressure.
Alright. Okay. So we have your screen shared.
Mhmm.
Gerard Hart. So I'm gonna pop that up.
There's our episode that we recorded.
Was a whole lot of Thank you so
much for inviting us on. I really enjoyed
that session. And it went live yesterday. Is
that correct?
It is. Yes. So
in my mind, first of all, we have
to top that fun. It has to be
more fun today, and I hope it will
be. Because like a real problem, anything can
happen. Again, would be disappointed if production doesn't
go down. So that's one of my goals,
to take production down. Right? You don't hear
this every day. And
proof. Right? Here it is. So I was
really looking forward to that. It's in the
show notes.
Yeah. Really excited to see what happens, literally.
So let's see what happens.
Alright. And just like that, I I I
listened to the whole thing before I retweeted
it. I just wanna make sure I didn't
say anything that I would regret.
Okay. And did you?
No. No. My, audio my kid said I
sounded like I was, talking from a tin
can in space, so I'm on a different
microphone today.
Right. Well, I was gonna say, why does
it sound better? Because it sounds better.
What what I thought was great about that
episode is I sounded terrible. And anyone who's
seen this anyone who's seen my show before
knows that my audio quality ranges
are all over the place. Sometimes it can
be okay. Sometimes it's absolutely dreadful. And you
actually spent a bit of time with me
before we went live and actually walked me
through fixing that, and I'm eternally grateful for
that as well. And my audio over the
last couple of weeks has been
astoundingly
better.
So
I know. I actually, I did a favor
to myself because I listened to your videos,
and I follow your videos. And I thought,
no. I just have to fix that.
So I've been enjoying them a lot more.
So, yes, you're welcome, and thank you.
Awesome.
So could we maybe get are you happy
to give us a bit of an overview
on what does the changelog production infrastructure look
like? What what have we got running here?
Right. So I spent quite a bit of
time with metrics, with logs, with graphs, with
that sort of a thing. And I knew
that you wanted me to prepare some slides,
so I did. The slides are actually Grafana
dashboard,
Rawkode Grafana Cloud.
So, yeah, this is something new. Haven't done
it like this before, being like a semi
slideshow in in the Grafana dashboard, but that's
exactly what this is.
So
a link to the to the actual what's
happening right now for people to follow the
follow-up.
The changelog application infrastructure setup, everything is open
source. So if I click that, go to
GitHub,
everything is there. So application code twenty twenty
one, this is the whole setup.
There's some make files, various things that we
use, and we'll be looking at what it
looks like once it's configured.
But I would like to come back and
look at this little thing.
So this is how everything works from the
request coming in to changelog.com.
All those requests are served by Fastly,
CDN,
they serve a lot of traffic. And as
a result, our back ends, they don't see
a lot of it. So 90%,
ninety five %, it's all cached.
So
most requests are served by CDN, by Fastly.
Then we have a Linode Node Balancer
where the requests come through.
And this is just a TCP pass through,
so there's no TLS termination, nothing like that.
And This is where the fun starts. This
is where we'll be focusing on. There's a
Kubernetes,
LK managed Kubernetes. It's a single node. Ask
me all about it. There's a very good
reason why it is a single node.
Behind that, we have Ingress NGINX,
Phoenix, and PostgreSQL.
So it's a typical three tier app. It's
monolithic.
Ingress NGINX is the web layer. Those requests
go to Phoenix, is like an application.
That application has a volume to it's using
like a local path, local storage.
The persistent volume,
that's the uploads where all the m p
threes are stored, all the media stored, thumbnails,
all that stuff.
And then we have PostgreSQL database,
which also has a local path database
volume,
which stores all the data. So fairly simple.
The reason why
this is okay is because and this is
the reason why, again, it's okay to take
production down because even if it goes down
fastly, we'll keep serving stale content.
So
all requests will be cached, and they keep
getting cached all the time, by the way.
And if the back end cannot the origin,
as it's called, cannot be contacted, the request
will be just served from Fastly.
So,
again, if this all works the way it
should, if we take production down,
majority of the users, 95% will be unaffected.
It's only the ones that are logged in
or, you know, stuff like that. So if
you are logged in, by the way, you'll
know why it doesn't work. So using private
browsing always fixes it.
As long as there are no cookies, you're
good to go.
Alright. Well, I was so confident coming into
this session that Kube proxy was gonna be
the culprit. But it's a single node cluster,
so Kube proxy is not even doing anything.
So that that that rules that out completely.
Okay.
So
What what were some of the reasons why
you went to the single node? So you
hinted at it
in ship at the other day and and
again. So,
yeah, you said ask me for the details,
so I'm asking you. You're asking me. Great.
Okay. I was expecting that. Thank you.
So
before we went to single node, we used
a multi node Kubernetes setup, right, as it's
recommended three nodes.
What we have found out is various issues
regarding volumes attaching and reattaching, so detaching and
reattaching.
So let's say if a specific workload would
move around, we would have increased downtime because
volumes
failed to detach correctly and reattach.
So
I know that these issues were like early
days, like beta time on LKE, and things
have been fixed since.
However,
even after they were fixed, we were using
clustered PostgreSQL.
And for whatever reason,
the reader or, like, the replica, shall I
say, would stop
replicating.
So then
the primary
PostgreSQL,
the write ahead log would fill up. It
would fill up the disk.
It would crash eventually, and you couldn't restart
because disk was full.
So try resizing the volume.
Really? Okay. So, yeah, eventually you do fix
that a couple of times. But then you
wonder,
would a single node fix all of this?
And not only it fixed all the problems,
it made us
rely heavier on backups, for example,
and it simplified so many things. So
until recently,
on LKE, you couldn't get block storage backed
by SSDs,
like really fast block storage. It used to
be slow. This is a recent change. Like,
I think in the last maybe month and
only in a specific data center, this feature
is available.
But what that meant is that our database
queries were slow.
So it's crazy to have these Linode VMs
which have really fast local SSDs that you
can't use because you're attaching a persistent volume,
which is which is backed by block storage,
which is
forty, fifty times slower.
So again, we solved a lot of problems
by just going single node, use local storage,
have backups, do them often, like, every hour,
and restore. Like, we can restore really quickly
from backups.
And
I test them regularly,
but what hasn't happened yet is we haven't
gone
in a situation like in
I think since the beginning of the year,
since we switched to single node,
that
we were missing a cluster. So what I'm
saying is in practice, we tried both. And
for us, single node is more reliable,
faster,
simpler. So that's why we use that's why
we chose that.
I love that. I think,
you know, especially with everything going on with
Kubernetes and cloud native is that teams are
so quick to reach for horizontal scale to
get resiliency and redundancy when sometimes
just really getting a tight feedback loop on
backup and restore is a much more
efficient and effective way to handle this stuff.
That's really cool to hear. I like that
a lot.
Yeah.
And
one of the other things which I wanna
mention is a lot of people keep saying,
Why are you using Kubernetes? You have a
single app. It's so simple.
The reason why we use Kubernetes because we
have a couple of concerns around it, like,
for example,
generating TLS certificates and
keeping the TLS certificates in sync between
the ingress NGINX
and the CDN. So we have jobs that
we run that keep them in sync.
We have
automatic updates, which are which are just baked
in.
We can use a lot of tooling very
easily because everything is in a container. We
just pull it down. And everything is self
contained, well defined, so the ecosystem around it
makes it simpler.
And we are avoiding some of the gnarlier
problems,
multi node, big clusters,
stuff like that. So it is simple. Almost
like we're picking the good parts and maybe
not
relying on the bad parts, not
using the bad parts. I'm not sure how
to say that, but we're picking the good
parts. Let me put it that way. We're
picking the good parts. Yeah. I actually wrote
an article
in the same vein as this that was
called you may not need Kubernetes. No. You
may not require Kubernetes, but you definitely need
Kubernetes. And it's like Yeah. Your technical requirements
may not say, okay. I need all these
features of Kubernetes.
But the ecosystem and the tooling and all
of these conventions
stuff that's out there that you can take
advantage of is generally a competitive advantage for
most organizations,
even if there is a small
not a small, but maybe a significant learning
that has to happen to be able to
run Kubernetes.
But then that doesn't mean you have to
operate Kubernetes like you're doing. Like, you're using
a managed service and then just breaking the
bits of Kubernetes that you need to solve
the problems that you have. Yeah. A very
wise way of doing it. Definitely.
Also, nothing in place upgrades.
Always, like, set the new one up, restore
from backup, try it out. Yeah. Like, blue
green, everything. You using Valero for your backups?
Nope. Nope. Just standard Postgres tooling to an
s three bucket on?
I can show you how that works in
a second. I mean, do want me to
do that or show you the problem? Like,
what do you mean to do first? Yeah.
I mean, we could just have fun taking
a look at the change logs infrastructure. But
we are here on a mission, so maybe
we should
oh, no. Okay. Go for it then. Git
remote v. I mean, it'll be really quick.
So git remote v, I just I just
pulled it down.
C d twenty twenty one. That is a
directory which currently stores all the config. Where
am I? P w d. Yeah. I'm already
there.
So I have to source n. That's the
first thing. It just contains a couple of
credentials using LastPass to set my local environment
up to get me the tokens and everything
everything that I need.
And once I have that, I mean, make
targets everywhere.
But if I do make k nines n,
these are all the things that will run-in
the background. So make k nines, it's an
end cursor interface.
And just as you're used to maybe using
Vim or Tig, which is an end cursor
interface for Git,
Canines, it's an end cursor's interface to Kubernetes.
And this is what it looks like. I
can see all the pods running in this
LKE managed Kubernetes cluster.
And it's that simple. Once I'm here, I
can do pretty much anything on production.
So you're asking about backups.
Okay?
So let's go. Let's look at the namespace
prod 2021.
This was when that was set up in
in April.
This specific instance,
we can see the version one twenty ten
of Kubernetes
that we're running.
And you can see these backups, these pods,
they are from the there's a cron job
which runs them every hour.
The app instance, the database instance, and there's
a pod which all we have is, like,
to be able to restore the database.
Now if I restore the database, it's gonna
have everything inside, like
drop all the connection. It has do a
couple of things. And all that is self
contained in a pod sorry, in a container
image. So what I have to do is
jump there, run a few commands, and it
happens.
So I wouldn't say it's clickopsy,
but it's terminalopsy,
if that's a thing. I don't know if
it's a thing. Maybe it will be as
of today.
So let's have a look at cron jobs
so we have a backup. Is it is
it cron ops?
Has that hasn't been coined yet? Yeah. Cron
ops? May maybe this specific thing, but no.
Like, the rest, everything else, I don't think
it's cron ops. I think it's my terminal
and me typing and doing things.
But the cron jobs are only two. Right?
One which runs the backups.
And the backup job, this is, you know,
what it looks like. In terms of the
description, I think I maybe would have wanted
to do an e to edit it. And
now it's opening the terminal, loads all the
secrets. All it does is just, like, you
know, runs
some
commands.
That's it.
Which is there is an image.
There's image. The change log backups.
And
it's runs commands, and it knows how to
back up. So
let's
trigger this job. How about that? If we're
to trigger this job, this is how simple
it is to trigger trigger an ad hoc
backup. So control t.
Did I trick no. T.
Yes. Let's do backup right now. Live backup.
Let's go back to pods. We'll see the
new backup manual one. Container.
Let's look at the logs.
Starting the database backup.
Starting uploads backup. So back it backs up
everything to s three. It takes a database
dump, streams it to s three, and it
takes it synchronizes
all the back all the uploads, all the
media.
There's there's, like, a few new files,
and it does that. It's like an incremental
one. There's a new episode of JS Party
that was just backed up to s three.
There you go. Have you seen this on
our before, David?
Yeah. K9 is is is quite popular by
people on Custard.
Nah. It's much more episodes.
And the database backup, how long did it
take Starting 04:50,
four fifty, twenty four. No. That was too
quick.
Starting 04:50.
Actually, no. It wasn't too quick. It was
twenty and something seconds. So twenty one seconds
later, we've backed up the entire database. Only
one is this simple.
Restoring takes maybe two minutes.
That's it. The entire data. Like, what more
would you need than this?
So okay. So we took a backup. How
about we
shell we open a shell in this container,
and we look at backups. That's like an
autocomplete.
I don't wanna backup. I wanna do s
three backups.
This will list all the backups.
So this is the backup that we just
did.
This one right here. This is a database
backup.
And as for the media, it's just, like,
synchronized here.
So everything is backed up to s three.
And by the way, it just needs an
s three compatible
store API.
In this case, we use
AWS s three, but it can be anything,
really.
Nice. So
there you go. That's how simple it is
to take a backup, and that's what it
looks like from a perspective of pods. I
mean, what else would you like to see?
I mean, we can hold off on the
restorative way breaks on the stuff if you
want. Yeah.
I think so too. Why don't we
look, k nine is a really great interface.
I like that you're you're using that. Maybe
we should
take a look at what the problem is
and give people a bit of an idea
about what we're going to try and debug
today.
That is a good idea. Sure. This is,
by the way, an overview of what we
have running right now. This is what production
means. This is what change load production looks
like right now. The memory, just over allocate
because we cache a lot of stuff in
the app, but it doesn't need that much
memory. And, again, single note. So what is
the problem? Gerald Santo in the chat who
said, you just shipped that episode of JS
Party. There you go. Hey, Jared. Great. Well,
it's backed up now. And if we wouldn't
have backed it up manually in the next
hour, it would have done it directly.
Great. Well, it's backed up. It's all good.
Cool. So coming back, what is the problem?
So let's close the intro. We kinda we
understand Yeah. Slide two, please.
Next slide. Slide two. Yes. Slide two. So
let me close slide one, and let me
open slide two. So what is the problem?
Okay.
The problem is that the web response times
are and if I have to bring up
the intro, it's basically this layer,
Ingress NGINX.
The web response times sometimes are slow.
Does anything look slow here?
We have a couple of outliers, but nothing
that gives me any cause for concern.
Right.
The reason why is that because we're looking
at the ninetieth percentile.
So if we are looking at the ninetieth
percentile, 90% of requests,
they complete within
some two hundred milliseconds. I haven't seen any.
I mean, I can zoom in to
see something specific if there's any outliers here.
But you can see that the ninetieth percentile
within three hundred milliseconds,
they complete.
Okay?
What about the ninety fifth percentile?
Okay.
Five hundred milliseconds,
slightly worse,
but nothing crazy. Right? We have a few
which take maybe
this is two seconds here. This one right
here, I wish it would highlight, but it
doesn't. It's just around the two second mark.
But what about the ninety ninth percentile?
There you go. This is a different story.
So some requests can take a minute,
a minute and a half. So why do
they take that long?
Why do certain requests, like, at the tail
end
take that long to respond? I mean, it's
it's a single host. Right? Ingress NGINX talking
to the to the app. It's all local.
Any guesses? But this isn't all static
content, is it? This is this is dynamic
content. Well, I think there's some dynamic between
the
yeah. What what differs between
the endpoints that are experiencing
this and the ones that are not? Yeah.
I'd wanna see a like Okay. I think
what Mark is the same as a histogram
of the endpoints to see if there's any
groupings of the anomalies on a single endpoint.
Yeah. So that is which responses are slow,
right? That's exactly what you're asking me. Slide
number three. I'm gonna open it up now.
We have to slow down because we'll go
through too quickly through the slides.
I will have loads of time left. So
slide number three,
which is telling us is that this one
is a get
to
uploads podcast four five eight, the change log
four five eight. This took two point three
nine minutes.
So we can see if we sort them
by max,
a lot of the ones actually, all the
ones that take minutes
are the ones are the m p threes.
Yeah. The media files. Yep.
So what are you thinking?
So those media files, are they just files
on the desk locally? They're not being pulled
from s three. Right? They're backed up to
s three but served locally.
That's correct. Yes.
Alright. So we've got something.
I'm assuming that there's a single endpoint and
your Phoenix application that does delivery of these
empathy assets.
Or these aren't going through the Alexa. Right?
These are just go these are direct HTTP
requests to the failed through the web server.
No. No. No. No. The the Phoenix app
serves them. But it's
you don't have to worry about, like, scaling
on the Phoenix side because it just uses
all the CPUs.
So, like, every every single request will just
use as many CPUs as it needs to
use. So sorry. Every request will use, like,
one CPU core. So there's no
there isn't a bottleneck on the on the
Phoenix side.
Okay. I mean, obviously, they're being pushed. Right?
And it's, like, the clients, however long they
take. But I think there's something interesting happening
here. I don't know whether this does a
good job of showing it. But look at
these. There seem to be many
of these,
which take about a minute. Is it just
the size of the files?
It is. I mean, they're they're big files.
I mean, do we have do we are
we able to break down where the requests
came from for these files?
Where the requests came from.
Well, let's have a look at that. So
let's explore the upstream responses which take more
than ten seconds. Okay.
Okay.
So
all the upstream response times, they take more
than ten seconds.
So let's see. This one, for example,
request time sixty one seconds.
JS party.
This is everything that we see about this
request.
Anything that stands out.
I I like, the comment there about, you
know,
MIME typesetting and g ZIP not turned on
in the NGINX config. I also wonder if
it could go the other way. So, like,
if the client didn't if if it's a
special client making the request and that client
doesn't have gzip
encoding support,
We would be able to tell that from
the headers what what the client requested, but
we're talking about m p three files. So
they're already compressed.
So I I don't think
that's an area of concern.
I also wonder when all these requests are
coming in,
this m p three is slow. I so
my thought was, well,
you're running on a VM. Maybe your VM
is hitting some kind of IO contention,
and maybe the disk really is running slow
at this moment in time. Mhmm.
But if you're receiving other requests that are
being served at the same time, then maybe,
maybe that's
that could show that it's not a disk
IO
problem.
But we can't really tell that because other
requests might be getting served directly from cache
or or kernel,
file system cache.
Mhmm.
Okay. So I I've given you a lot
of nothing.
Well, you you gave some ideas. Like, I
I like again, this is, the whole point.
We're doing this so that we run through
various ideas and we see, like, what could
it be. And the goal is to show
how we interact, how we discuss about this
problem.
So what I find really interesting is that
we have, like, a whole band of requests,
which are around, like, the the sixty second
limit,
and that is meaningful.
The other meaningful thing, think, is the status.
Yeah. Partial content. Exactly.
So
the way I understand this is that we
are streaming
these responses,
right, because they're like m p three files,
and it just depends what does the client
want. And we stream them based on what
the client is requesting.
After sixty seconds,
I'm wondering if there's, like, another request which
is opened. Right? Because I don't think these
are long long lived. I think it's, like,
a max time, and then they
stop, and then maybe another one opens and
then continue streaming.
So we could filter them out to see
which ones are non two zero six and
see what happens.
GZIP,
that's an interesting idea, but these are m
p threes.
So and as far as I know, they
don't compress very well because they're already compressed.
So I don't think
GZIP will make any difference.
I'm wondering if the reason why this is
the way it is is simply because the
application is serving
data,
binary data in this case, which has to
be streamed. Right? That's how users listen to
m p threes.
And it's literally like that streaming thing
that just takes time. Right? Like, the the
TCP connection is open,
and you're streaming chunks.
And that's why the status is two zero
six,
partial content.
It closes the connection, and then it opens
another one.
And you have to tell it, okay. So
where do you want me to continue
streaming this file or, like, serving this file
from? And I think I think that's what's
happening here, but I'm not sure.
Okay. So can we take that query and
group by status to see the breakdown,
the distribution? So
let's see. How do we do that? So
it's sum by.
Would be sum by actually, I think it's
this query. Think this is the one that
we would need to work with. So
this one is max over time by method
and path. What else would you like us
to add? Would you like us to add
status?
Great. So let's do method, path, and status.
All that we need to do, shift enter.
So status. Even though it grouped by status,
we don't see the status, and this is
where let me just hide that.
Let me come down here. So let's just
add a status there.
I because we're not gonna be able to
group very well by user agent, but I've
seen different user agents handle partial
requests
or ranged HTTP requests differently. Mhmm. Mhmm. I
tried to
implement
a streaming service using
just RangerQuest
Mhmm.
Options available in the spec or or sort
of vagueties
of the HTTP spec
that,
I I observed that browsers were handling the
request differently. You you could,
you could,
now I'm not gonna remember what the exact
syntax
was. But,
if if the browser requested
a certain range on the server side, I
tried to re
give them back less than what they requested
and have them come back for more in
a way so that I could sort of,
do a a per minute charge of what
they were doing. I could see how much
content they were requesting.
And if they tried to request the entire
file, only give them back part of the
file.
Mhmm. But that was only possible because different
browsers handled the requests in different ways, Firefox
versus Chrome even. So if we try to
see if
the problems that we were getting here,
were one browser or another,
that might tell us something, but I I
don't know that we're gonna be able to
group that very well in this tool.
So that's that's a good idea. But I'm
wondering if now
we have a problem. Like, do we have
a problem, or the is this behaving the
way it should?
And when we are looking at all the
requests and grouping them all together, then some
requests,
like, for example, m p threes, they behave
correctly.
They will take sixty seconds or more based
on the speed of the client.
So we have a question on the chat
from Carlos who's asking, are all of the
sixty second requests
partial contents?
Which I think is something we all want
we all want to Okay.
Let's have a look. So upstream response time,
more than
59,
and upstream response time, less than
61.
It's nine sixty one.
Two
zero six, two zero six, two hundred,
two zero six, two hundred, two zero six.
So it's a combination of two hundreds and
two o sixes.
Can we change the visualization to a histogram
on status?
Can we change to histogram?
I
can try, but I don't know how that's
gonna be like. So hang on. No. That's
not what I wanted.
Why did this break?
Oh, there it is. It's my e there.
I added an e. Cool. So let's go
to graph.
If we change it to his oh, that's
the pipe.
Yeah.
Hist I I
know the influx. Histogram. There we go. Histogram.
I don't think that's telling us much, really.
No. Not what I was hoping for. No.
We have to mess with this. And, again,
I'm not sure how exactly that would work.
But
so why did you want why did you
want a histogram?
I wanted to see the distribution of 200
to two o sixties.
I guess we could always just do it
at a really hacky way and maybe do
a count unique of the
the status just so we could get some
sort of number.
If you know what you want, walk me
through it and I'll write it. No. I'm
not a Prometheus person. I'm I'm a FluxDB
through and through. So I'm a
So so interestingly,
this is not Prometheus. These are logQL queries.
Oh, so this is Loki? This is Loki.
Exactly. Yep. Because we're looking at the logs,
and that's what we're working with here. So
what did you want to do, David, again?
Tell me so that I can Yeah. If
we could get maybe if we just do
by status
and then do account of that value.
So by status. Okay. So let's group them
by status,
maybe.
Let's do and that will give us fewer
see if it does something.
There we go. So we see the two
hundred and two o sixes.
Do want me to remove this,
or is this what you wanted to see?
Yeah.
I guess that's that's close enough. It looks
like what? One, two, three, four.
Seven eights are split. So it's mostly February
with some February.
Yep. Yeah.
I mean, that kind of that aligns with
the hypothesis
we had. There's maybe this is working as
intended with the partial content and the media
files being streamed over potentially slow connections that
make it take a bit of time.
Yeah.
That's what I'm Is there too. Could we
filter it to a single file?
I I'm wondering if that would reveal anything
just to take out the variability of these
are different files.
Okay. Yeah. That's a good idea. So let's
do path again in status.
And let's do actually group by group by
path. Wondering if, like you know, maybe some
of the m p threes are compressed differently
or are more compressible or are larger sizes.
So let's
kill the
fruit salad and turn this into, like, an
apples to apples comparison.
Yeah. Okay. So we're only we we are
grouping them by path now.
This one, for example, but we're limiting the
upstream response time to 59 to 61.
Do we want to expand that a little
bit?
Because this is constraining
which
responses it's going to show us, and I
think we want to have more.
I think we want to have more can
probably do anything above above,
you know, thirty, twenty. Like, anything that's not
normal, and then There we go. So if
you were to look at this one, for
example, go time one nine six,
we have an interesting I'm just gonna can
I make this I can't make this bigger
than this, unfortunately? I could maybe hide the
anyways, if we look at this, majority take
a minute. I think if you do the
full screen,
the graph.
Yes. No. I I think it's just like
the resolution. Alright. Okay. Let's
everybody can see.
So
what is our audience saying? I think we
have some good suggestions.
Yeah. So Carlos is agreeing that this is
maybe just standard
behavior.
The $2.00 6 is what's expected.
Yeah. What
else have we got?
Exactly what I'm saying. Request is gonna be
a smaller request than, like, a 200 request.
The 200 is going to be I I've
delivered you the entire file to you. The
206 is going to be I gave you
some subset of the file.
So I'd I'd expect the two zero sixes
to be slower, not
longer.
So these are the two hundreds.
We can see for this, like, go time
file how they are distributed.
The majority around one minute. We have a
few outliers here.
And for two zero six,
we have one which takes a minute and
one which takes two point six minutes.
Two point seven.
That's it. We can yeah. Why don't we
try and confirm our hypothesis then? And, like,
let's filter out the uploads directory and look
at the median response time of just standard
pages.
And then if we see anything that is
an outlier Yes. Yes. That's a great idea.
Okay. So I'll go back. I'll just refresh
so that we no. That's not what I
wanted.
Stay on page. Slides. Let me just refresh
this. Yeah. Leave page. I don't care about
any of the changes. I want to reset
back to, like, a good known state.
Let's what is the problem? Let's look at
that. Let's take the ninety ninth percentile.
Let's look at the web response times. And
let us in exclude
and by the way, we're excluding all the
health requests,
which is a good one to do. But
I think what we want to do is
exclude
everything which is doesn't include m p three.
Yeah. I think that's a good idea.
Let's just include all m p threes. Let's
include all m p threes. Oh, look at
that.
Nice. That's what you want. If we exclude,
we have, like, a few think there was
I know there was an event there, so
let's just ignore that for now, and let's
focus on this.
And maybe let's come back to see this.
So what do we see now?
So if we don't take into account the
m p threes,
this looks a lot lot better.
Most requests are under one second.
Yep.
And I think we'd like to understand a
bit more what happens with those requests.
So let's just do that. I'm going to
refresh the page again.
I just remind myself that I have a
slide.
Which responses take over one second
which are not uploads? Look at that.
It's almost like I could foretell that's like
we're going to get there. Look at that.
So
we see all requests,
get sitemap.
That is the one
which takes many seconds.
That is XML
failed. Alright. Exactly. It's clearing the the entire,
like, master feed.
This takes a few seconds. Generated?
Is it a generated URL? Or just because
it says sitemap..XML
doesn't mean that it's not a dynamically generated
page. It is a dynamically generated page. Yes.
It is. And it has to query the
entire database
when it gets generated.
Are your m p threes served as, like,
static content, or are they also going through
dynamic
processing?
Maybe the ranged requests are are
like like I was describing, I tried to
make my own media service that that would
cut things up. Mhmm.
Are you is, you know, NGINX
doing the partial range
response
request handling,
or is this, like, you know, for lack
of a better comparison, a PHP script that's
reading this in?
Because the volume
the uploads volume is attached to the app,
the requests
go through the app. So we can't attach
this volume
to this pod. This runs, like, in a
different namespace.
It's like you know? So we need like,
the app needs to be able to write
to this volume when, for example, we upload
m p threes. So
the volume is attached to the app. The
requests to m p threes go through the
app,
which is
fairly fast to serve them. And I don't
think that's a problem. It's just like we're
seeing that the app
or say, we're seeing the result of the
app serving
m p three files,
which maybe we wouldn't expect.
So I think that we need to filter
this out.
Does the app have hooks of some sort?
So every time somebody makes a request, is
it writing something to a database? Is it
keeping track of,
you know, user activity
in real time?
It it depends on the request. Process?
Yeah. Not when an m p three gets
gets hit. So for example, an m p
three request,
if it's not cached in the CDN
it's usually is. But if it's not cached
in the CDN,
then it has to go through all the
stack. It has to go through the balancer,
through the ingress, through the phoenix.
So the expectation is that the c the
the m p threes will eventually
all be served from the CDN unless they
expire.
So the
TTL
on the m p threes is really high.
So if we were to look, for example,
at
this one let's take this one,
and let's see what do we get if
we were to query it.
So let me just get out of here.
HTTP stats.
Uploads.
So what do we get this, by the
way? We'll get it. So it's a miss
miss. It's not in the cache.
And what happened? Audio MPEG. HTTP 200.
So what what happens if we do that
again?
Oh, it's in the cache.
Jared gave us a message that there's no
logic involved.
It's Elixir static serving library.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. That's right. There's a few comments
probably worth highlighting. So if there's that one
there saying the other is not logic.
We've got one from
Bogdan who says, it's curious if we divide
the response body size to the time of
delivery or response with the equal to bit
rate of the m p three. I don't
think we have that information in the log.
No. We don't. No. And the bit rate
is always the same. That doesn't change. Yeah.
They all have the same bit rate.
Yeah. Gerard asked, how does the CDN play
into this? Shouldn't it be handling those range
requests directly and caching our MP thirties?
That's exactly what I'm showing here. Yeah. So
the first request was not
in the CDN. I was expecting it to
be in the CDN, to be honest. Yeah.
That can cut off guard. Because I'm assuming
people listen to these quite Exactly. I mean,
we've seen the requests. Right? Yeah. So how
long should it be in the CDN?
Strict transport security,
ETag.
Yeah. What's the cache control on it? The
length? Cache control public.
Can we include the cache in our
in the filter?
The cache header, I'm not sure. Response headers.
Yeah. There's yeah. So let me see that.
Let me explore. We have to go back
to the explorer.
Let me close this one.
And if we look at that, let's see
what do we have here.
So
this is all request,
but do we have response headers of any
sort?
That's it. Bye. Here's
a question from Noel, which I think is
quite interesting. I'm curious if you know the
answer. Well, Noel has a hypothesis first. So
he says, is the client that requests a
fail on slower connection is getting it delivered
in chunks with two o sixes, whereas faster
connections get it in a single go?
Does anyone know how that negotiation happens between
the browser,
the size of the file, and whether it
wants to stream it or not? Like,
is is that even how it works?
Because I have no idea.
The browser makes two zero six requests,
and the server can
so you you request, like, you can say
zero dash to to the end of file,
or you can give a specific range request.
The server is expected to deliver
that entire range. The shortcut I was trying
to make was to give the user less
than what they asked for,
which wasn't
covered in the spec. If the user said
they wanted zero dash,
the
user was expecting to get the whole file.
I I believe that there's also if you
make a a regular request, the server can
can refuse to do that and tell you
to make ranged requests.
And,
and if your range is,
if your range size is wrong, I think
there's HTTP,
error messages you can return. Status codes, can
return for, range
scoping problems.
But the control, I think, is in the
in the client sense here.
Okay. So,
I mean, I'm still confused, but that's that's
not an anomaly. Right? I'm always confused. So
how does we've seen a lot of those
m p threes with a 200 rather than
a two zero six. Who makes that decision?
The client or the server?
The client Or does the 200 mean the
server all? Like.
Carlos
said that the browser does an options first,
and that that sounds
The options would give it the size,
and then the browser decides whether I'm fast
enough to do a 200 or a partial.
I think it it tells the client that
I'm capable of doing ranged requests,
and then the client says, I I wanna
do ranged requests.
Mhmm.
When when you send it, there's
is it range?
The header might be range that you send
it in your in your get request.
So does that range always happen for an
MBFTs?
I don't think because right now, I'm struggling
to know how to explain the two hundreds
on the MPT files
because we did see a few.
Okay. So
Is this the difference between a browser that
knows how to play media and streams it
versus something like, you know, a download,
which would be a 200?
Is it maybe just that kind of interface
or right click and save as is a
200, but playing in the browser is a
range?
Is it as simple as that maybe?
What happens if you download this with curl
and send it to dev null?
You go to two hundreds
and you serve the whole thing. Yeah.
But what if you do that on the
Changelog website with DevTools opened? Are we gonna
see a $2.00 6 range?
So
that's not what I meant. I meant Changelog.com.
And let's save this one. So if you
were to play this one, let me open
the browser. I I'd see inspect element. That's
the one.
Network. Yeah. So if we clear the network
and keep an eye on that and then
hit play, I'm curious what we see.
Okay.
CDN byte range. I think this is the
one. An error occurred while trying to get
the resource. Right?
Accept request bytes.
Varnage
miss.
I'm not seeing the response, though. Headers.
O206.
Alright. Okay.
The behavior we're seeing is the difference between
download
and playing it through the change log website,
perhaps.
That makes sense. You should see in the
request, you should see that content range header.
Was that specified here or not at all?
That's right. It was specified. Look. And that's
right there. Range bytes.
That's exactly right.
And now I'm learning how media works over
HTTP. So
can we see this? I'm wondering if we
can see this request right now live.
Do we have the request ID on the
client side that we can go ahead to
locate? Every
everyone in the comment thread, hit this file
at the same time, and we're gonna see
who gets it slowest.
And we'll ask you what you like for
dinner. That's a great idea. I love it.
I love that. Also, I have to switch
my lights on.
Very important.
One is done. Just one second.
Something something else that
I was
considering in Google, but I I didn't find
any great answers, was possibly
that your your caching back end is maybe
having an easier time caching
the entire file versus ranges.
I didn't hear what you've said because I
was busy clicking. But we've loaded we've loaded
the we've loaded. So this one was which
one was this? This one change Log458.
This was a miss. So let's see if
we can see it here. Right here. 458
change log. I'm not seeing it. Yeah.
Are they taking over ten seconds? Because there's
a limit.
Are they taking over ten seconds? ShipIt. Fm,
by the way, I think people must have
been hitting this when I mentioned it.
Do you see that? Like, a lot of
these like, the ShipIt episode 18 was being
played. So that's an interesting one. So That's
probably just my mom. We can ignore that
one. It is. It is. You're right. She
really wants to listen to that episode. So
if we if we remove that, if we
remove the limitation and then we come back
to the slides, what do we see?
Oh, that's interesting.
Let's just filter by m p threes.
So
let's do
responses taking over. I think we already have
this, actually. So let me go back. Let
me just refresh this. Yeah. Leave oh, no.
Just leave page.
Let's take which responses are slow.
Response is taking over ten seconds.
JS party.
Shit. These are the only ones in the
last five minutes which take more than ten
seconds.
Okay. So Oh, I see. I see what
the problem was. Yeah. Gone. I'm now I've
got my dev tool set up on throttles
on network to GPRS,
and I am now playing four five eight.
So Mhmm. You should be able to see
that command, and it's definitely gonna take more
than ten seconds with that throttle,
One hopes. Right.
So which responses are slow, taking over ten
seconds? This is one which I want to
edit.
I want to I don't care about the
response. I just care that the path
matches.
Maybe I was a bit harsh with the
GPRS because it's not even started playing yet.
It's buffeting.
Yeah.
On the right side.
Yeah. These log query tools
There we go. Are There's me. Things I've
been looking for. I'm
I'm gonna have to
look into this a little more later.
So which which one are you? Are you
this one? Dot. Yeah. You're this orange one.
Okay. So what happens if I request it
again with curl? I want to request the
same one, so let me just grab this
URL.
Carlos is enjoying the introduction to Loki as
we parse the engine x log.
Lots to learn. So that was a that
was a 200,
very quick 200.
Let's see how time
do I have time? I don't know. I
just run the time.
One point one five seconds. Okay.
So let's see. Start reloading every ten seconds.
Actually, no. That will be annoying if I
do that. Let's just do off.
So
change log four five eight. That's the one.
Three hundred 16 milliseconds.
We could add the browser here,
what do you call it? Method
path
HTTP user agent. What is it?
Mean, I can force my user agent to
Rawkode or something if you wanna confirm anything,
but
I think I can do that at least.
Go for it. We can get more Rawkode.
We need Rawkode in our logs. That's exactly
what we need.
Let's get it.
User agent. So now these will basically, these
will look a bit ugly because they're really,
really long. We won't be able to see
much, but
Macintosh. That's me. Ten fourteen there.
Podcasts.
Let's just focus on
this one.
Now it will do the grouping by episode
as well. So
those are, like, my two requests
right there.
Before
and
10:15. No. That's someone else. 10:14.
Alright.
You can use yeah. Okay.
So
what did we learn so far?
Let's just, like,
take a step back, big picture.
We learned that
these
requests,
the m p three requests,
they are the ones that are the slow
ones most of the time. There's also the
others, like the dynamic ones, which query the
database big time. And we can have a
look at the database
metrics as well, by the way.
Do we understand why some of them take
to respond two zero six and others two
hundreds? I think we do at this point.
But we're not but we're not seeing a
difference necessarily between two hundreds and two o
sixes?
We're not seeing a difference in
In
long running,
requests.
Can can would we say that two zero
sixes and two hundreds, it kinda doesn't matter.
It's just that we're we're seeing
long runs on m p threes.
Right. So Have we ruled out have we
ruled out the the status code as, indicative
of the problem?
Status
back in.
Me put the status down here as well.
So I can set my user agent to
Rawkode, but I have set it to PS
4, which I'm assuming you don't have anyone
listening on a PS four.
No. I don't think so. No. 206. If
we could see a 206
PS four then.
Yeah. So look. This 200,
interestingly,
here, it took one point eight three seconds.
But here, it took three hundred and sixteen
milliseconds.
And if we zoom out just to see
a bit more,
we can also see which one this one,
for example, chip it. Here, it took a
minute, which one is with 206.
And it was with two zero six zero
seconds. That's not right.
Can't see 0. That they closed the tab,
though. Right?
It's possible.
But zero? Okay. Maybe.
So
are there are also a good one. Are
there request for nothing.
206.
Say again?
If somebody did arrange a request for one
byte
Mhmm. Zero seconds.
One five
that would take more than zero.
Yeah.
So this one, interestingly, 20206.
Look. Both take one minute.
One minute here, One minute here. But these
are obviously different. Must be different user agents
or whatever.
This one,
HTTP user agent 206159154.
So yeah. Okay. Can we check something just
because I I'm curious. I have I've been
around on my side. Right? So I've for
the changelog.com
domain, my user agent is now set to
PS4. Can can we try and filter on
that in the logs? And we should see
a 200 and a few two o sixties.
So let's do
HTTP.
What does it refer? Something something.
It's
the HTTP underscore user underscore agent. Yeah. Yeah.
That's what I was looking for.
And you want it to include what? P
s four, did you say? P s five?
P s four. P s four. Okay. Caps?
Okay. I can confirm, but let's see if
we see anything. Okay.
No data. Alright. PS four.
No data.
That's good.
Let's see what I've got sent here.
Oh, sorry. PlayStation.
PlayStation. Well, the set is called PS four,
but it sends us PlayStation capital p capital
s. There you go. Okay. So that's a
200 from the download that I did.
Yep.
That's yours.
Yeah. And it took ninety six milliseconds.
So you must have had fast connection. What
about if you have it slow?
Slow it down. Yeah. Let's load it now.
So right now I'm trying I'm gonna try
and stream it on GPRS again. Let's see
what happen.
Okay, it's running very slowly.
Still nothing.
Nope. Still nothing.
I guess we'll have to wait for the
oh, we're not filtering on response, are we?
Like, it's not a minimum of sixty seconds.
Yeah. No.
So that's weird. We're not getting any NGINX
logs as I tried to stream JS party
one nine two.
Is it does the request not complete yet?
Are you still waiting for first block to
return? No. Hang on. Hang on. Look at
that. This is get podcast feed. So this
is completely different. HTTP user agent
where it says play.
Am I even, like, getting yours? Like, PlayStation,
did you say? You put PlayStation in the
refer?
Yeah. My user agent has PlayStation in it.
Nope. As a case There's no request.
Yep. Yeah. PlayStation.
A capital s.
Right.
Of course, you would do that.
There you go. Those
are yours. Right? Yes. So my 200 are
forever. I download the file, and then we
should see
Two seconds. Yeah. Look at that. Two hundred
four five eight
two seconds.
JS party. Dreaming JS party just now on
a slow connection, but I don't see that
there.
Let's see. Oh, no. It is there.
This one.
This one's happening right now.
Yes.
Yeah. That's your But why is it 2Hundreds
2 0 6? That's that's throwing that whole
thing out the window now.
I know. This one was here was 206.
This one now, it's 200. And we can
see we have multiples of those.
Can it be that you're
Does it do ranges, by the way?
Like, okay. Let's do this. Let's
take this one,
and let's explore it here because we can
see the actual
yeah.
I I was thinking about the not being
able to show
I was in our PlayStation four. Yeah. Sorry.
Go on. Those range headers, but we do
have, yeah, we do have the the size
of
the content that was transferred. Do we have
that in here? So, like, if we're seeing
two zero sixes, then we'd see this these
were two o sixes per one megabyte
or, you know, a few hundred k versus
where we're getting the full m p three
downloaded and maybe it's several megabytes.
Yeah. It's a good idea, actually. Yeah. Those
two hundreds that we think are full downloads
should have a consistent byte sent, I would
imagine.
Byte sent, four five three zero two.
Four five three zero two. Let's see this
other one.
Byte sent.
This is a lot more.
What about this one? This is the fav
icon. No. That's something else.
Uploads. No. That's already something else. So
did you get anything other than
there's like a lot of stuff here which
shouldn't be here.
So this one is you for sure, PlayStation
four.
This one
is also you, 445302.
Bytes send, this is +1 94.
Oh, this is +1 94 is me on
the heavily,
heavily throttled
GPRS connection, which is probably why the Bytes
send is so small. I'm assuming we'll see
loads of those. But look, this got a
304.
It's
got a 304. And you got from CDN.
Yep. So that's that.
This one is a 200
from PlayStation four
byte cent.
Okay.
And this one is
a lot more byte cent.
I'm not seeing any correlation here. Nope. Nothing.
Except
this one. This one. But this is the
fav icon, so no.
PlayStation four.
This gets
this is the avatar, so that's something else.
So maybe you should filter by m p
threes.
And
the three zero four is I had to
refresh myself on that. That's it's no content,
but it's no content because it's a a
comparison against the cached
value that the client already has. It's it's
asking if, what it has is
still Mhmm.
Correct.
Request time. 2.42202.4.
This is a different one. Yeah. This is
JS Party.
This is the change log.
Yeah. So the change log, I downloaded. And
JS Party, I'm currently streaming.
But I'm not seeing the consistency I expected
to see in the status codes.
So I turns out I have no idea
how media delivery works over HTTP.
Well, I'm still not seeing, like, the one
that you're streaming. Right? This was this started,
five minutes ago. Is that when you started
streaming it? I mean, no. Because this was
already finished. Right? So this is a finished
response. I think the one that is currently
happening hasn't been finished yet. Must be. Right?
It's still running. Yeah. Let's see. So there's
no there's no log here. It hasn't completed.
And it's not a partial one, so it
must be still open.
If Can you control c it and see
what happens?
If you control c, do we see it
in the log?
Sure.
Done.
K.
There's nothing here, so let's wait for something
else to appear here before we
declare success.
Nope. Still nothing.
And what we're trying to determine now is
it's still
figuring out if client throttling or client
speed
is plays a major factor in the time
that we're seeing.
Mhmm. I think what I expected to see
is when I throttled my connection
and
requested the m p three is that we
would see the two zero six partials
with a consistent base and a smaller range.
But I don't we've seen two hundreds as
well, so I really don't understand how that
works. Are you sure that you got it
from the back end? Are you sure that
it wasn't served from the cache?
Because by the way a different episode, and
I'll I'll check the the ones that are
Keep keep the go time.
Keep the same me dropping all all the
shows. Yeah.
Keep the same episode. Just put 21
as a subdomain.
That will go directly to the origin. That's
like a little known secret.
Nobody do that. Just go through the CDN.
But there's a way to go directly to
the origin.
K. So you want me to stick with
JS Party?
Just add 21 dot and then everything as
it was before the the URL.
Okay.
Okay. So it's streaming now. Right? It's
doing the thing that's supposed to do that
it's supposed to do.
It's trying to. Yeah. Okay. There we go.
So now we have one right there.
That was a 3 0 4,
but that came through the CDN. So we
don't want to see through the CDN. I'm
wondering
bytes. And that was a 304, so no.
It's I know.
Wait. Refresh. There we go. That's another one.
Okay. So 200. That's the host header. Now
you're going directly to the origin.
200. Yep. I can see it.
Request four seconds.
Yep. Byte sent.
So what do you wanna test next? Like,
we're seeing your request now from PlayStation four.
So it's still starting bring you the m
p three
right now.
This one was completed
according to this.
Nope. Was it completed? Was is there a
handoff?
Is this sending it is there a
a server in between?
And and now the buffering is happening through
some intermediary?
Well, no. I mean, the NGINX 21 will
have to change the request.
Okay. I think I'm throttling too much. I'm
gonna throttle it less so we can actually
maybe see what we wanna see.
So so this one was completed. Right? Like,
this is from the upstream.
We can see what up the upstream responded,
and we can see what NGINX responded.
So this is a complete request.
Yeah. I got a 304 number. I'm gonna
go to +1 91 instead of +1 92.
Yeah. 304.
Yep.
I don't think either that episode doesn't exist
or it's not loading.
Should there be a JS party one nine
one?
Right. You need to change it twice.
Once.
And there's +1 915. 0. Right. Okay. Got
it.
Alright. Do we see that?
It was a 404. We've seen your 404
where you didn't update
the
second one nine one or the first one
nine one.
And we are seeing this one as well.
Yep. We're seeing it. 200
Yes.
That 200 is
a stream well, looks like it's streaming on
my side. So I didn't expect to see
a 200.
You're interesting.
I think I've got some research to do
in my over in my next bad downtime.
Yeah. Like
so that means that, like, the server completed
the request. It's HTTP two. That's interesting.
That Your request is over HTTP two. Is
that
that what you're seeing from all of David's
requests?
The request protocol? Imagine it would change. Yeah.
I I imagine they'd all be the same.
I I'm trying to figure out if there's
Yes. They're all HTTP two.
All of them.
Yes. I guess HTTP does HTTP two does
streaming differently from HTTP one. So I wonder
if I even forced that the HTTP one,
we'd start seeing those.
Could probably just do a a grip on
the two o sixties and see if they're
all
anchored by the the proto, right, and see
if they're Yep. Two or one. You wanna
do status.
Okay. So not from yours. Right? Not from
your end? Yeah. We can do across them
all. Yeah.
So go back here. So what do you
want me to do?
By?
By http underscore proto
and status. You can probably just remove method
and path if you wish.
Path is important. We can remove the method
for sure.
Path. You wanna see the path.
HTTP prog. Yeah.
Status.
HTTP program.
Russell's got a interesting question there.
HTTP Proto. Yeah. Cool. That's
there. Why are we not seeing it?
Go back. Was it HTTP Proto?
I think it was. Request Proto. Oh, Request
Proto.
Okay.
Now it says just, like, clustered every time
I think it's something wrong, it's my fault.
To 200HTP1200HTP120620204.
We kind of assume
that we should never see a 206 on
the HTTP2.
Right?
Well, to confirm that, maybe we should oh,
and this is your just your user agent.
So maybe I should remove that user agent.
And instead, let's take the HTTP
request proto. Sorry.
Request
proto.
Let's make the request proto be
Yep.
Forward slash.
Right.
And this is.
K. So two point o.
Let's just look at the request proto. How
about that? I think that's what we want
in the status.
And we're not gonna see a 26. No
2Sixes. Yeah. Yep. That's right.
What about when the request proto is
1.1?
2 0 Sixes. 2 0 Sixes. Yep. Interesting.
That's the last fifteen minutes. Maybe we should
go for longer than that. What do you
think? 2O?
Yeah. So last.
No 20 Or just stop creating. No. No
20 No 20
That's right. Put it back to 1.1.
Point one.
This is fun. I like this.
Right.
This is just one of those h t
p two enhancements is, like, streaming comes free.
Look at that. Oh, yeah. With Yeah. With
h t t p two, you would just
get the response, and then everything else would
come behind the subsequent responses. So they would
all be two hundreds. Mhmm. But the issue
to be one, you'd have to indicate that
it's a partial response, and then the next
one would be a partial response,
and so on. So,
yeah, kinda makes sense based on my limited
knowledge there, or at least more sense than
it was. Well, based on these observations,
yeah, based on the data that we have
on the queries, yeah, I mean,
you group them by request proto. We can
we'll can filter the status
if we want to. So let's do status.
It is
or status is and there's an easy way
to do it, but let me just wrap
it like this. It is two zero six.
And then
k.
Only
see two hundreds. What did I do wrong?
Status 200.
Yeah. I don't think that OR will work
because you can't have the status of those
200. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I think
I will need a regex, and I think
I'll need to go for an OR inside.
Okay. Let's do that.
There we go. There we go.
So 200,
2 0 sixes. Do we see any difference?
I don't think we see any meaningful difference
between them. No. No. I mean, the two
they're
scattered just about the same.
What if we change the protocol to two
point zero?
Oh,
interesting. Yeah. So the slower response is different.
Yes. Chunk streams.
Interesting.
Okay.
Do we have any suggestions from the from
the channel, from the viewers that we should
Russell said something, Andres, and then Marcus just
said.
Yeah. Does NGINX still have a connection to
the client open
after getting all the data from the Phoenix
app?
Similar
thoughts. It would probably spawn by that.
Could the data have all been transferred and
we just haven't gotten
a closeout
from
of the request?
Maybe NGINX is not closing it. Maybe the
other side, maybe the
the application
has sent the data that hasn't closed yet.
Mhmm. That got me wondering about session data.
So so I don't know if you're every
time these m p three requests are coming
in, if your application is
doing some sort of state check, like,
check a session cookie that came in and
then update it, refresh it, and take it
back. No. It's all, like, it's all the
Phoenix. Jared answered this really well. So I
go back,
it's basically Phoenix. I mean, I can show
the code, but it's in
Lib. There's, like, a root test file. So
remember, and then there's something else.
There is static.
I'll put it here.
We still have Jared's change log web router.
Pages.
Static pages.
Oh, loads. You should search for that. Isn't
they're not here. We have all these plugs.
I don't know. We
don't have Jared. We lost that. That's endpoint
uploads. Unplug. There you go.
Plug static. I found it. Plug static uploads
from change log, GCFOLs, headers.
Circuit control, that's something which I was expecting
to see. CD and static cache.
Expecting surrogate control to be set,
but I haven't seen it be set, which
makes me wonder.
Let's see.
I'm
really disappointed we haven't killed your infrastructure yet.
Okay. We can fix that really quickly. Are
we towards the end of this stream?
We could we could yeah.
Are we are we almost done? Yeah. We're
we can start wrapping this up. Alright. I
I I don't know about you. I I
feel like we kind of almost worked this
out.
I just I think maybe what you've got
is those anomalies, you know, which we're talking
about less than 1% are
older devices or browsers, potentially older cars with
some
limited web functionality that's trying to pull down
the fail over HTTP one, which is causing
the partial content streams,
which are particularly slower than the HTTP two
streams. I guess the chunking mechanism is perhaps
different.
That's kind of Okay. Where I'm at. I
don't know if you both agree or you
you think something's slightly different.
No. I would I would agree with that.
Yeah. I would agree with that. I think
that's a that's a good
good wrap up. We do see the two
o sixes. We do see the two hundreds.
We understand the difference between h t p
one and h t p two. I will
do a follow-up research. We know that the
m p three files are the ones that
are inflating
the Ingress NGINX. That's why it suggests that
some requests are slow, but they're not. They're
just like m p threes, which, you take
time to be served. And, you know, sometimes
slower connections
can take longer, but oh, sorry, slow clients.
But why what I don't understand
is
why
aren't those m p threes cached
by our CDN?
Because they should they should be cached up
to, I think, a year or two years.
So once it has been served from the
CDN, it should always be served from the
CDN.
Because what I've just done now is scaled
down the app to zero. So if you
go to the origin, if you go to
21.changelog.com,
which is the origin directly, this will
not work. So production is down.
Except
for, like, a regular user, go to changelog.com.
I'm signed in.
But this is happening. So if I go
in private mode, changelog.com,
I have my cookie.
There we go. Changelog is up.
Oh, it's not done. And what happens if
I play this? Will this work?
And it works.
So m p threes. This m p three
could be streamed or at least it can
start streaming.
If you rerun your request, David, does it
still work? The one without the 21, by
the way. Oh,
the 21 is definitely broken.
Yeah. Of course. Because that's the origin. The
origin is down. Yep.
And my CDN when I change 21 to
CDN, I'm getting a 503 back end unhealthy.
CVN?
Yeah. For JS party one, that's 91.
Ah, that's interesting. Oh, yeah. I'm signed in
here. CVN for JS have to do. We
brought down the site. It's a good time.
We did. Yes. Right? At least parts of
it.
They're uncached. So so that's that's my question.
Why aren't these m p threes, why aren't
they stored longer
in the CDN? And that's what I would
like to dig
into next. So for example Follow-up. This one.
Sorry. Go on. Follow-up. Yes. That's a good
idea.
And this is working if I go here,
like, because I haven't listened it to here.
Will it still work?
This still works.
All the byte range, that still works.
So I'm wondering, yeah, this is back end
is unhealthy, and I think this one is
not cached
Right? These visits because this is when we
track, like, the clicks.
So that doesn't work.
So shall we scale it back up and
unbreak it? Yeah. Let's do it. Live? Okay.
Scale up.
Odds
namespace.
So
pods
and through its status. So l.
It's one of the things which it does
always. It always tries to restore
from backup,
and it just does like a sync. So
it just makes sure that whatever it has,
it just well, sorry. Whatever it needs to
have, it's already local. So there's nothing backed
up which it doesn't have.
And then it, like, does the does the
reverse,
which means that if we were to deploy
this, like, on a brand new system,
which
oh, I just got my alert.
This needs to be alert. So that's, yeah,
that's the one when things aren't working, so
it finally noticed that. Well, I'm still getting
a five or three years. Is expected right
now?
Yes. Because it's still starting. It hasn't started
yet. Alright. My alerts keep going yet.
So let's have a look. If we go
to changelog or findout.net,
we have this synthetic monitoring.
Let's have a quick look.
This is down. We know this is down,
but this is up according to
all the probes.
Yeah. No. You can't post links.
So this one is
let's see. Change log. Yeah. We just need
to switch to changelog.com.
A % uptime. Look at that. The latency
will go slightly higher.
Let me go to the last, you know,
last thirty minutes. There we go. See, the
latency goes up,
but
this is still cached.
I think we are currently down. Yes. We
are coming back up. So
changelog.com,
if you're not logged in, it will work.
Changelog.com.
I'm not I have don't have any cookie,
so
opt down for the majority of the users.
Stuff that's dynamic, for example,
this one, if we click here, this was
cached.
Even though the back end is down, this
was cached. It's just searched from the CDN.
If you were to play,
they should also be cached, they should work.
Yep. And it does.
So our episode is okay.
But if we were to, for example, click
on some news items
like
this one,
because this goes, oh, and we're back up.
So you must be back up. That must
have restarted. Yeah. It's back you go. Yeah.
So already back up.
That would not have worked had the origin
not been up because the request, the the
redirect, and the and the tracking, like, link
was posted.
Okay.
Okay. Can can we look at one last
thing to because my curiosity is getting the
better of me before we we finish. But
can we take a look at the request
proto 1.1
status two zero six and see if we
can see any
commonality across the user agents.
Okay. Can you say that one more time?
So let's take a look at the logs
for the request proto 1.1.
Right. So the logs request proto. So let
me just get it from here. Your agent
or a different agent? Just all all requests.
So 1.1.
Okay. So I think we this is the
view that you want. Yes. 1.1. Yes? Yeah.
And just the two o sixes on the
status.
The two o sixes. Yes.
Okay. Let's take a look at the user
agent. So h t t p underscore user
underscore agent.
Russell somehow managed to get a two zero
six on h two, which has also thrown
that out the window. So thank you, Russell.
Okay.
Method path. So that's the agent 206HTTP
1 1. Android, Mac, Windows, Linux. It's all
different. I was just
curious if it's gonna see BMW or
something. I don't know. Like, x 11. The
next that's Mozilla. Okay. Mac OS
a two, Android,
Chrome. Yeah. All sorts of browsers. Yeah.
Two zero six for HTTP two. Interesting. Yeah.
So let's let's test that. If the protocol
is two point o,
we'll see any two o sixes
in the last seven days. No. No.
So
I think
actually,
yeah, I'm not sure why we're not seeing
this.
Can we try htp2.star
just in case?
Or just htp2star?
I am. Yeah. Let's try h t p
two.
Nothing.
Nothing. Status is 200. No. We're not seeing
any 200 2 0 on htptwo.
Yeah, Russell. We're not calling you a liar,
but we're definitely calling you a liar. Yeah.
No. We can't see them in the logs.
That's all we're saying. Yeah. We can't see
them in the logs.
Yep.
Alright. I think unless
it's if you wanna do it in next
couple of minutes, I think we can maybe
leave that there. I think it's been really
fun and, you know, just testing our thoughts
and talking about that alert. I think it's
been really good for me to try and
understand what's going on, and I'm sure others
as well.
So
SSB, we've enjoyed it.
Yeah. One of the things we tried to
do is, like, figure out what what was
in common between all of the the failures,
and there were too
many variables
that we had to poke at and maybe
not all the data.
Mhmm. We I don't know if we really
dug into if it could have been geographically,
correlated.
I'm also curious about the other aspects of
the back end, like the database. So I
I know, you know, you say it's static,
but I still think that there's room for
that elixir on its way to delivering some
static content to try to
touch a database on the way.
And if not elixir, then something else. There's
also the possibility that there's
middle layers of this that we're not seeing
captured in this one set of log output.
So being able to put all the information
together and then sift through it
Yeah. The answer's out there somewhere, though. So
what I'm wondering is,
what about we create a GitHub issue
on change.com,
which captures these thoughts? And maybe when we
have some answers, some good answers, maybe we
can do a follow-up. How does that sound?
Yeah. Definitely.
I think that sounds like a a good
idea.
I'm also gonna dig into your your cache
messes. Those seem to be rather sporadic. I
think there's something there.
But yeah, definitely something for another day.
Yep. So that yeah. We'll get that issue
well, someone will open that issue. We'll get
it shared in the short notes for anyone
that watches this. I nominate Marcus. Yeah. Alright.
And we encourage you all to come and
join us and have some fun working this
one out because
Love it. This is a good mystery. I
like it. Alright.
Well, thank you both for taking time out
of your day for joining me. Thank you,
J Hart, for bringing, you know, this interesting
problem that wasn't a problem but might be
a problem.
Just exploring and pulling away the layers of
this has been a whole lot of fun.
So I hope you both have a wonderful
weekend, and I I hope to speak to
you again soon. That's all for now. Bye.
Thank you.
See you all.